# Study Protocols

### [Albrecht et al. (2016)](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0152781)

Four stimuli were presented 48 times each (total trials = 192) to participants in a pseudo-random order. Participants were instructed to respond by pressing a button ("Go") or withhold responding ("NoGo") to gain rewards ("Win") or avoid punishments ("Avoid"). Stimuli were rewarded or punished at a probability of 0.8. Two stimuli were associated with reward and two stimuli were associated with punishment. The alternative to reward or punishment was a neutral outcome. Action and valence were crossed, resulting in one of each of the four stimuli requiring "Go-to-Win", "Go-to-Avoid", "NoGo-to-Win" and "NoGo-to-Avoid" in order to achieve the best possible outcome. 

The stimulus presentation sequence and timings were as follows: a cross hair presented for 400–600 ms, the stimulus presented for 1000 ms, a no-response period presented for 250–2000 ms, a response window presented for 2500 ms indicated with an "O" for 1500 ms then a cross hair 1000 ms, finally feedback was presented for 2000 ms. 

### [Mkrtchian et al. (2017)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biopsych.2017.01.017)

The task comprised four experimental conditions where action (go & no-go) was crossed with valence (reward & punishment): 1) go to win reward, 2) go to avoid losing (GA), 3) no-go to win reward (NGW), and 4) no-go to avoid losing. On each trial, participants were presented with one of four fractal cues per condition, followed by a target detection task, and subsequently by a probabilistic outcome. In the rewarded conditions (GW/NGW), correct responses were rewarded 80% of the time, but resulted in no win 20% of the time. Incorrect responses led to no win 80% of the time, but were rewarded 20% of the time. In the punishment conditions (GA/NGA), correct responses avoided punishment 80% of the time but led to a loss 20% of the time (and vice versa for incorrect responses).

The fractal cue, target detection task, and the outcome were each presented for 1000ms and separated by a 250ms inter-trial interval (ITI). Subjects had to learn that each fractal image indicated both which 1) action (go=make response; no-go=withhold response) to perform during the target detection task and 2) the associated valence of the outcome (reward/no reward; punishment/no punishment). In the target detection task, a circle was presented randomly on one side of the screen (50% of trials on the left). In the go experimental conditions (GW/GA), participants had to match the position of the circle by pressing the corresponding key (i.e., press the left key when the circle was on the left and vice versa). In the no-go experimental conditions (NGW/NGA), participants had to withhold any response (i.e. any response was recorded as incorrect). The circle was presented for 1000ms regardless of response. 

Participants were informed about the probabilistic nature of the task but they were not told the action-outcome contingencies for each fractal cue. The task was divided into 24 alternating safe and threat blocks (12 blocks of each). Each block had five trials per experimental condition (GW, GA, NGW, NGA), with a total of 20 trials per block. There were thus a total of 240 trials (60 trials for each fractal cue) per safe or threat condition. 

### [Millner et al. (2018)](https://doi.org/10.1162/jocn_a_01224)

On every trial, participants were presented with one of four cues (fractal images), followed by either an aversive sound ("escape" condition) or silence ("avoid" condition). The participants’ goal was to learn which response (press a button: "go", withhold a button press: "no-go") more frequently resulted in silence during feedback. As noted above, in the escape condition, the onset of the cue coincided with the onset of the aversive sound. Here, participants had to learn the response (go or no-go) that turned off the aversive sound. In the avoid condition, there was no sound during the cue presentation, and participants had to learn the response that avoided the aversive sound from turning on during feedback. 

The two required responses (go, no-go) and two conditions (escape, avoid) that affected whether the sound was played during the cue and target presentation resulted in a 2 x 2 design with the following four conditions: go-to-avoid, go-to-escape, no-go-to-avoid, and no-go-to-escape. For each of the four fractal cues, participants had to learn the response that most likely resulted in silence during feedback. Following the 2 x 2 design, each cue was associated with one required response (go or no-go). The feedback was probabilistic, such that a required response resulted in silence during the feedback phase 80% of the time, whereas the other response resulted in silence 20% of the time. The timing of the trials were: cue (1000ms), response window (2000ms), feedback (2000ms), and ITI (1000ms).

### [Moutoussis et al. (2018)](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006679)

Participants were presented with four different abstract stimuli each of which had a constant, but unknown, association with a correct policy. The correct policy was either to emit ('Go') or to withhold ('NoGo') an action, here involving a button press. If the correct decision was made, the better of two outcomes was realised with probability 0.8. This better outcome was null (as opposed to a loss) for two stimuli and positive (as opposed to null) for the other two. 

Minor simplifications were made to help deliver the task to a community sample, on a large scale and in the context of a multi-task battery. First, implementing the decision 'Go' was simpler, i.e. not dependent on any target features, unlike the original task in which the 'Go' action could be either 'left' or ‘right’ depending on the location of a target. This allowed trials to be shorter. However, time pressure from the remaining task battery (to be reported separately), meant that subjects performed a more restricted sample of 144 trials. Second, task clarity was improved by informing participants before performing the task that the outcome probabilities were 0.8 and 0.2. Third, motivation was made explicit by telling participants that they were playing for real money. 

### [Swart et al. (2018)](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.2005979)

In the task, subjects learn to make Go or NoGo responses to maximize rewards for "win" cues and minimize punishments for "avoid" cues. Trials start with presentation of a gem-shaped cue (1300 ms) followed by a fixation cross (700 ms) and feedback (1000 ms). Four cues are followed by reward or neutral outcomes ("win" cues) and four cues by punishment or neutral outcomes ("avoid" cues). During cue presentation, subjects make a button press with the left hand (Go left) or right hand (Go right) or withhold from responding (NoGo). Only one of these response options is considered correct per cue, and based on the response, subjects receive feedback. Correct responses are followed by a reward ("win" cues) and a neutral outcome ("avoid" cues) 80% of the time and by a neutral outcome ("win" cues) and a punishment ("avoid" cues) otherwise. For incorrect responses, these probabilities are reversed. Based on the observed outcomes, subjects need to learn the optimal responses by trial and error. Trials end with an intertrial interval (ITI) varying from 1000 ms to 1750 ms in steps of 250 ms.

Subjects are informed that i) each cue can be followed by either reward or punishment, ii) each cue has one optimal response, iii) feedback is probabilistic, and iv) the rewards and punishments are converted to a monetary bonus upon completion of the study. Cue valence is not instructed and can be learned from the feedback. In total, there are eight cues with 40 trials per cue. After every 80 trials (approximately 6 min), subjects have a self-paced break. Each subject performed the task twice using two independent cue sets.

### [Csifcsal et al. (2019)](https://doi.org/10.1162/jocn_a_01515)

We used a modified version of the orthogonalized Go/NoGo task. Participants were told that they were about to play a card game in which four cards would be presented in a random order during each of the experimental blocks. Their task was to maximize their earned points by the end of the game by finding out, via trial and error, which card should be "picked up" by pressing the space bar with their dominant hand and which card should be left untouched by remaining passive. Participants were told that (1) some cards were "winning" and some were "losing," (2) there were cards with favorable outcomes following a response and cards associated with no response, (3) these characteristics for each card remained constant for the duration of the experimental block, (4) there was no relationship between cards belonging to different blocks, (5) the task was difficult because feedback was probabilistic and thus there were infrequently presented misleading outcomes as well (probability levels not told explicitly), (6) so participants were encouraged to explore both response options for all cards on multiple trials, and (7) all outcomes were numerically smaller if they were preceded by an active response relative to remaining passive (i.e., there was a small "Go-cost" of responding, which would reduce wins, modify neutral outcomes, and increase losses by −1 points). By introducing the Go-cost, our aim was to promote tendencies of remaining inactive in the yoked group. 

Each block contained a new set of cards, and there was no relationship between the card sets (i.e., participants had to start learning again at the start of each block). Except for the practice session, cards in each block were shown 20 times, yielding a total of 80 trials per block. In each block, the four cards within each card set were randomly assigned to one of our four experimental conditions: "Go-to-Win," "NoGo-to-Avoid," "Go-to-Avoid," and "NoGo-to-Win". For winning cards, our participants' aim was to collect points and avoid the absence of winning, whereas for avoid cards, they had to avoid losing points by obtaining neutral outcomes (0 or −1 points, depending on Go-cost). 

Each trial started with a fixation sign for a duration of 1–1.5s, followed by the cue (card) presentation for 1s. The response screen was followed by a delay period (1–1.25s), and the trial ended with the presentation of a feedback screen (1s) depicting the numerical value of the outcome. Outcomes could be rewards (10 or 9 points), neutral values (0 or −1 points), or losses (−10 or −11 points), depending on the presence/absence of the Go-cost. Outcomes were probabilistic with a response–feedback contingency of 70–30%, so that correct (incorrect) responses were followed by the favorable (unfavorable) outcome in 70% of the trials, whereas feedback was misleading in the remaining 30%. 